feat/new product overview pages (#646)
hirosystems/docs: docs/chainhook/index.mdx

---
# The default id is the same as the one defined below. so not needed
title: Chainhook Overview
sidebar_label: Overview
custom_edit_url: null
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<p class="p-3 rounded-lg bg-neutral-100 text-neutral-500 dark:bg-neutral-800 dark:text-neutral-400">Chainhook enables you to build custom event streams for Bitcoin layers and trigger actions based on those events.</p>

<div class="mb-10"></div>

> Chainhook is a reorg-aware indexer that serves reliable blockchain data—saving you time by avoiding reindexing your database every time there’s a fork. Chainhook also lets you index only the data you need, which means you can build lighter databases, get faster query results, and deliver a better experience to your users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chainhook is a reorg-aware indexer that serves reliable blockchain data—saving you time by avoiding reindexing your database every time there’s a fork. Chainhook also lets you index only the data you need, which means you can build lighter databases, get faster query results, and deliver a better experience to your users.

Chainhook can be used as a tool in [your local development environment](https://docs.hiro.so/chainhook/getting-started) and as [a hosted service in the cloud](https://docs.hiro.so/platform/guides/create-chainhooks) via the Hiro Platform.
```

  </a>
  <a href="/chainhook/guides/chainhooks-with-stacks">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Create a Stacks chainhook</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Build a chainhook that reacts to events on the Stacks blockchain.</p>
  </a>
</div>

<div class="subSections my-8 w-[50%]">
  <a href="/chainhook/guides/register-chainhooks-on-devnet">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Test your chainhooks</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Test and debug your chainhooks in a local environment.</p>
  </a>
</div>

### Scan Blocks for Past Events

<div class="subSections my-8">
  <a href="/chainhook/guides/chainhooks-with-bitcoin">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Index Bitcoin</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Scan past Bitcoin blocks for the data you need.</p>
  </a>
  <a href="/chainhook/guides/chainhooks-with-stacks">
    <div class="subSectionTitle"><h3>Index Stacks</h3><span>→</span></div>
    <p>Scan past Stacks blocks for the data you need.</p>
  </a>
</div>

### Related Tools

**[Ordhook](../ordhook/index.mdx)**: Create event streams specifically for Bitcoin Ordinals.

**[Hiro Platform](../platform/index.mdx)**: Streamline chainhook creation in a cloud-hosted UI.

---

> Need help building with Chainhook? Reach out to us on the `#chainhook` channel on Discord under Hiro Developer Tools section. We also host a weekly office hours on Discord every Monday at 11am ET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Need help building with Chainhook? Reach out to us on the `#chainhook` channel on Discord under the [Hiro Developer Tools section](https://stacks.chat/). We also participate in a [weekly office hours](https://events.stacks.co/event/HD16484710) on Discord every Thursday at 11am ET.
```
